The user has r equest ed enhanc ement of the do wnlo aded file.
The end of encryption ?
- the era of quantum computers.
In the 21st century, information technology is an integral part of our lives.
IT tools make it impossible for org anisations to op-erate without computers, networks and applications.
IT security is the state of the IT system, in which risks to the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the data processed are managed efficiently.
Data, infor-                mation,  and knowledge created, stored and transmitted on ICT devices is a subject to security threats.
The use of IT systems is a great help when it comes to high processes.
Security is the property of the data or elements of the IT system that they can be used by those entitled to them.
Even though perfect security is nothing but a utopia, each system, and  most users strive to protect their data as much as possible.
We will examine some traditional w ays of such protection and investi-gate, whether the emergence of quantum computers is affecting them in a radical way.
Possession -based procedures require specific tools, devices.
Tools can range from  simple tokens, or physical keys (opening certain spaces) Biometric procedures require a device to read the biometric identifiers.
A separate device for each user and one or more device readers per access  point s.
Biometric procedures require a device to read the biometric identifiers.
Biometric data can be skin pattern (fingerprint, fingerprint, palmprint, footprint), hand geometry, vascular network (palm, finger) or eye characteristics (iris, retina) or even DNA.
The greatest advantage of biometric procedures is that the human involvement is relatively low.
However, the role of the human factor is much more prevalent, and hence the risk of the i dentification process is more imminent.
Passwords are and can be used independent from their original users.
The authentication process does not distinguish between true and fake users.
Passwords can be stolen by trying different code lines (“brute force” or in other  cases, automated, serious calculations) or through experiments.
Passwords can be stolen by trying different code lines (“brute force” or in other  cases, automated, serious calculations or through experiments) A password that cannot be easily crack ed by brute force is considered se-                cure.
The total num-                ber of potential character combinations is one of the factors to be assessed – which calls  attention to the importance of the human fa ctor that usually gets to determine the length of a given password.
The break rate depends on two fac-phthaltors, the computational requirements of the hash function used to generate the shadow password, and the computational power available.
Increasing the number of optional character sets by a quarter, from 80 to 100, in-creases the time required to crack the password.
The length of the passwo rd is more important than the composition thereof.
As we increase the length of our password, we can get a password that is really hard to be broken with current machines.
For 15 characters, it will take more than 1 billion years.
A well -chosen password can provide optimal security against the password -breaking resources of today's generic machines.
One of the keys is called a public key and is distributed as widely as possible.
The other is the private or secret key, which is kept secret by its owner in the most secure way possible.
If there is a need to send a secured  message from the SENDER to the RECEIVER, the public key will be used.
It can only be decrypted with the RECeIVER ’s secret key.
Quantum computers are computing devices that perform calculations based on quan-                tum mechanical phenomena.
A quantum computer may be able to perform calculations that would be practically unsolvable with traditional digital compu ters or could take years or decades to solve.
At present the most powerful (traditional)computer in the world is the IBM Summit built by IBM Corporation.
Quantum algorithms are able to process information in a fraction of the time the fastest traditional systems would/could solve certain problems.
Information that can be easily represented in 500 quantum bits could not be presented in 2^500 classic bits.
A classic computer could calculate the prime factors of a 2048 -bit number in just millions of years.
With quantum bits, this calculation can be done in minutes.
By the end of 2021, quantum computers are still rare.
There are only few that operate on a circuit -base logic, and other 5 that contain annealin quantum processors.
For some implement ations, the quantum bits must be kept at a temperature close to absolute zero.
Quantum Computing Algorithms have been developed starting from 1992.
Since the cost and time of their devel opment is extreme, and their operation is also difficult, we cannot expect a rapid increase  in hteir numbers in the comping 5 years.
However, from 2030 they may become the norm for organisations with h igh computing neccesities.
Quantum computers will cause a serious upheaval - what experts call a "quantum apocalypse" The advent of quantum computers is making the currently used encryption methods obsolete.
Brute force is not a language that can be used in connection to them.
Quantum computers can perform operations that traditional computers would need an eternity for in minutes.
Quantum computers can easily break most standar d mathematical cryptography problems.
Even though the era of quantum computers is still far away, cryptography research is already searching for potential solutions.
The challenges of security will not be solved, but only shifted to a more complex, novel field of mathematics.
Although quantum computers represent the future rather than the present for the public, many countries are already working on developing them.
At current such systems are extremely vulnerable to environmental effects and their reliability is also volatile.
If the weaknesses of quantum computers can be eradicated and their  reliability can be improved, the encryptions that have been use will soon be obsolate.