A Sample Research Proposal  with Comments  
 
A research project or thesis will take at least two semesters to complete. Prior to starting a research, i.e. 
enrolling in the first semester research course, students must go through the proposal stage, during which 
students will develop their proposal and have it reviewed by his/her research advisor. This means that students 
need months  of planning and background research work before the start of the first semester research. Students 
are not allowed to enroll in a research course without an approved proposal. For students planning to start their 
research in the fall semester, the deadlin e for the proposal submission (to your advisor) is July 15. For those 
who plan to start in the spring semester, the proposal deadline is December 1.  During the proposal stage, 
students should discuss their research interests with CM faculty members, identi fy a research topic, conduct 
preliminary literature review and develop a project proposal. The proposal should discuss problem statement, 
objectives, research methodology, research activities, and a time schedule in about 3 -5 pages. A sample 
proposal is at tached here for your reference.  
 
Sample proposal text  Comment  
A Conceptual Framework for Scheduling Constraint Management  Provide a brief and meaningful title to 
your project  
1. Introduction  
Every construction project is unique and has its own operating 
environment and sets of technical requirements. As a result, the execution 
of a construction project is subject to numerous constraints that limit the 
commencement or progression of field operations, which invariably have 
significant negative impact on ove rall project performance. By definition, 
constraints refer to any condition, such as temporal/spatial limitations and 
safety/quality concerns, which may prevent a project to achieve its goals. 
Successful execution and control of a construction project reli es on effective 
identification and management of constraints through master planning and 
short -term look -ahead scheduling. While the master schedule provides a 
global view of a project and the overall execution strategy, a look -ahead 
schedule offers a deta il account of operational constraints and a detailed 
plan showing work to be done within a relatively short time window. 
Ideally, these detailed schedules should reflect actual field conditions and 
provide field personnel with operation instructions free o f constraints and 
conflicts (Hinze 2008). This look -ahead scheduling and constraint analysis 
procedure is also a critical component  of the last -planner methodology 
proposed by Ballard (2000). This research project will provide an overview 
of state -of-art s chedule constraint analysis practice during look -ahead 
scheduling. In addition, it will propose a conceptual framework for 
managing constraints . 
 Background or introduction section 
provides a description of the basic 
facts and importance of the research 
area - What is your research area, the 
motivation of research, and how 
important is it for the industry 
practice/knowledge advancement?  
2. Problem Statement  
The importance of developing a constraint -free and reliable work 
plan has long been recognized by the industry. However, numerous 
construction projects are still plagued by delays and cost overruns, which 
can frequently be traced to ineffective identification and treatment of 
constraints. First, when a constraint is not properly identified during 
sched uling, subsequent conflicts in the field are inevitable. Today’s projects 
are becoming more and more technically complex and logistically 
challenging, which exposes construction operations to even more complex 
constraints. Second, the traditional schedulin g methods, bar charts and 
Critical Path Method (CPM) which are widely used as a basis for constraint 
analysis, greatly limit our capability in modeling and resolving constraints Problem statement provides a clear 
and concise description of the issues 
that need to  be addressed - What is 
the specific problem in that research 
area that you will address (e.g. lack of 
understanding of a subject, low 
performance …)?   during look -ahead scheduling. These methods have long been blamed for 
their li mitations in modeling and communicating constraints, including 
inability to cope with non -time-related precedence constraints and difficulty 
to evaluate and communicate inter -dependencies at the field operation level 
(e.g. Sriprasert and Dawood 2002; Chua and Shen 2001). In summary, there 
is a need for a better understanding of constraints in construction and a 
structured approach in identifying and modeling constraints to ensure a 
constraint -free work plan. More specifically, the following research 
questio ns need to be addressed:  
 
1. What are the typical constraints found in various construction 
projects?  
2. How to classify these constrains for easier identification and 
modeling?  
3. What are the current industry practice as well as research 
advancements in modeling and resolving constraints?  
How to unify the constraint classification knowledge and various constraint 
modeling efforts into a framework for total constraint management?  
 
3. Objectives  
The long term goal of the research is to develop a formalized 
constraint management system . Constraint management is defined herein as 
the process of identifying, classifying, modeling, and resolving constraints. 
The objective of the current study is to provide a comprehensive review of 
literatures and industry practices in relation to constrai nt analysis and 
outline a conceptual framework for constraint management. Particularly, the 
study has the following sub -objectives:  
 
1. To provide a comprehensive review of sources and characteristics 
of constraints typically found in construction projects;  
2. To develop a constraint classification method for easier constraint 
identification and modeling;  
3. To review current industry practices and researches in regards to 
constraint modeling;  
4. To outline a conceptual framework for total constraint management.  
 
The result of this study will be valuable to the industry practitioners as well 
as related software providers in developing better practice and tools for 
constraint management and look -ahead scheduling.  
 Objectives provide a list of goals that 
will be achieved  through the proposed 
research – What are the 
benefits/impact (e.g. better 
understanding, improved productivity 
…) that will be generated if the 
research problem is answered?  
4. Preliminary Literature Review  
A preliminary literature review shows that pas t studies are primarily 
focused on understanding and modeling a particular type of constraint, such 
as technological, contractual, resource, spatial, and information constraints. 
Limited progress has been made on classifying various constraints 
according t o their characteristics in a comprehensive manner. In terms of 
modeling and resolving constraints, various approaches have been 
recommended. For example, many CPM -based methods are applied to deal 
with time -related constraints; knowledge -based systems were  used to 
automate work plan generation; network -based optimization algorithms 
were developed to resolve constraints; and databases and visualization 
techniques, such as 3D, 4D, and Virtual Reality (VR), are used to 
communicate and visualize constraints. Wh at is missing from the past 
studies is a comprehensive and structured approach in managing constraints Preliminary literature review: provide 
a summary of previous related 
research on the research problem and 
their strength and weakness and a 
justification of your research - What 
is known/what have been done by 
others? And, why your research is 
still necessary?   in construction projects.  
 
5. Methodology  
The primary research method for this study is literature review and 
conceptual modeling. Constraint identification and classification through a 
structured approach is the very first step toward a “zero -constraint” 
environment. This study will first review various types of constraints in 
construction and their characteristics. Based on this understanding, a 
classification method will be developed to categorize constraint factors for 
the purpose of constraint identification and modeling. In the second stage o f 
this study, existing constraint modeling methods will be identified based on 
a comprehensive review of current industry practices and academic 
researches. Finally, once the constraint classification and modeling 
techniques are identified, a conceptual fr amework for total constraint 
management will be outlined. This study will be conducted between 
September 2010 and May 2011.  Research methodology defines the 
research methods and logic steps - 
What to do and how to solve the 
problem and achieve proposed 
objectives? Which research methods 
(e.g. survey, modeling, case study …) 
will be used?  Attach a project 
schedule table, if necessary.  
References  
 
Ballard, G. (2000). “Last planner system of production control.” Ph.D. 
Dissertation . Univ. of Birmingham, Birmin gham, UK.  
Chua, D. and Shen, L.  J. (2001). “Constraint modeling and buffer 
management with integrated production scheduler.” Proceedings of 
International Conferences on Lean Construction 2001 , Singapore.  
Hinze, J. W. (2008). Construction planning and sche duling , 3rd ed. 
Pearson, NJ.  
Sriprasert, E. and Dawood, N (2002). “Requirements identification for 4D 
constraint -based construction planning and control system.” 
Proceedings of CIB W78 conference – distributing knowledge in 
building , Aarhus, Danmark.  
 All factual material that is not original 
with you must be accompanied by a 
reference to its source.  Please use 
ASCE guideline on reference and 
citation style.  
 